The class template `std::promise` provides a facility to store a value or an exception that is later acquired asynchronously via a `std::future` object created by the `std::promise` object. Note that the `std::promise` object is meant to be used only once.

Each promise is associated with a _shared state_, which contains some state information and a _result_ which may be not yet evaluated, evaluated to a value (possibly void) or evaluated to an exception. A promise may do three things with the shared state:

- _make ready_: the promise stores the result or the exception in the shared state. Marks the state ready and unblocks any thread waiting on a future associated with the shared state.
- _release_: the promise gives up its reference to the shared state. If this was the last such reference, the shared state is destroyed. Unless this was a shared state created by `std::async` which is not yet ready, this operation does not block.
- _abandon_: the promise stores the exception of type `std::future_error` with error code `std::future_errc::broken_promise`, makes the shared state _ready_, and then _releases_ it.

The promise is the "push" end of the promise-future communication channel: the operation that stores a value in the shared state _synchronizes-with_ (as defined in `std::memory_order`) the successful return from any function that is waiting on the shared state (such as `std::future::get`). Concurrent access to the same shared state may conflict otherwise: for example multiple callers of `std::shared_future::get` must either all be read-only or provide external synchronization.